All right, guys.
So now we're going to jump in and get started with CSS Grid, which is one of the best additions to
CSIS and makes grid based layouts very easy to create.
So what is the grid?
It's a grid layout system for CSIS.
It's similar to Flexbox in that you can do a lot of the same things that you can do at Flexbox.
However, there are some big differences, the biggest being that the grid is capable of two dimensional
layouts, and I'll get to that in a minute.
CSS grid is a bit harder to use than flex, but it's also more powerful.
And we can use we can still use the same alignment properties that we've used with flex such as a line
items justify content as far as browser support all browsers support it aside from Internet Explorer,
which does have partial support for the grid system.
Now, since you've already learned, Flexbox, if you've been following along with this course, that's
going to help you tremendously because you understand the concept of having a container and then having
items within that container and grid works the same way where you set, you know, you set a display
property to grid of a container and then all of the child elements become grid items.
And then we can set an property called grid template columns where we define the number of columns that
we want as well as the widths.
And you're going to be introduced to a new unit of measure called FFR or fraction.
Now, the biggest difference between flex and the grid is that Flex is not capable of two dimensional
layouts.
You use it for a single row or column and you just set your alignments with the grid.
You can have two dimensional layouts.
So on the left we have just a one dimensional row with a nav bar and this is something we would use
Flexbox for.
You could use the grid, but Flex is usually good for this type of stuff.
And then on the right we have basically an entire layout that is set with one grid and you can actually
span items across multiple columns in multiple rows.
And this is a good example of exactly what I'm talking about.
This is one grid and this is something we cannot do with Flexbox.
You see, it's it's two dimensional.
It goes both ways.
We can take a an item and we can span it down a rows, separate rows, or we can take an item and we
can span it across columns, or we can span it across both rows and columns where.
Flexbox You would just have just elements along in one row, one line, and it's just one dimensional.
So that's, that's the biggest difference.
And there's different use cases for each.
I can't stand the argument of always use CSS grid.
It's in my opinion, people that say that they're just the type of people that have to use the newest
thing and have to use buzzwords just to basically sound smart and sound cool.
And that's just ridiculous.
There's different use cases for grid and flex.
For me, I like to use CSS grid for outer elements, basically boxes and grid like layouts and then
for simple alignments or inner elements, things like menu items, stuff like that.
You use Flex.
I use Flex for most of the stuff that we've done up to this point, like menu items and landing pages
where we're centering elements in a flex column.
I would I would use Flex for that.
I would not use the grid for that.
There were a couple of cases like maybe with the hotel site where we had the different boxes.
I may have used the grid for that, but, you know, it's it's preference.
Everyone's different.
Some people will use only one or the other, but those people generally don't understand the difference
and the use cases.
So you want to you'll kind of pick this stuff up as you go along.
All right.
So let's jump in and let's start to learn CSS grid.